The last section that we talked
about was volumes, okay?
And hopefully that was helpful for
you, and we're gonna get in today for
using containers in your
development environments.
And I think this is actually one of
the most compelling reasons for developer
populous at large to learn containers, and
that's actually why I put this in here.
So we're gonna go through
two different scenarios.
The first one I'm gonna show you how
to use dev containers outside of
Visual Studio Code,
just because I know all of you
don't use digital studio code yet.
[LAUGH] I'm coming for you.
So I'll show you how to do that first.
And then after that, I'll show you how
to do it with Visual Studio Code and
how VS Code will actually
make that really easy.
And then, lastly,
we're gonna go over networking before
getting into multi container projects.
All right, so go ahead and let's go into
Using Containers for your Dev Environment.
That's what we're gonna go into now.
So we've kind of explored this idea
of it's really difficult when you
start at a new company,
that it's difficult to get up and
running quickly at a new company, right?
And so that's where dev containers
can be very useful, right?
It'd be useful if they could just
hand you a Docker file and say, hey,
here's what our developer environment is.
If you just click start here,
then everything just spins up and
starts working right away, right?
That's pretty compelling, right?
I remember at one of the startups I
worked at before I worked at Reddit,
I had to start up a developer environment.
And it probably took me
the better part of two or
three weeks just to get
everything working right.
I'd be in a specific version of the JVM,
and then it had to be a specific version
of npm to get that version
of Angular working.
It was a Rube Goldberg machine of human
suffering, let's put it that way.
So that's what I think containers in your
dev environment can really solve for you.
So, obviously, I'm a JavaScript engineer.
I don't know anything about Go,
but we're gonna be using Go here for
a little bit just to prove the point
you don't have to understand the inner
machinations of how these things work.
It can just work for you, okay?
So I imagine many of you
have probably heard of Hugo.
It's a very, very popular static site
generator, comparable to Gatsby or
Jekyll or something like that.
It's great, lots of people use it.
I think Frontend Masters uses
it on their website, right?
Maybe?
>> Yes.
>> Cool, see?
So you've already used a Hugo website
recently, or maybe currently.
[LAUGH] Probably currently,
that's cool, right?
But I don't know how to set it up.
I've never had to set it up for
myself, because I'm not a Go developer.
I haven't necessarily
messed around with it.
But I'm gonna show you just using
containers that we can do all this
kind of ourselves.
So let's say that you're joining
this new team, it's a Hugo team,
and your new project is here.
So I have a link here and it's gonna link
to a GitHub repo, which is on my GitHub.
And we're gonna set up
this project together,
despite the fact that many of you, I
imagine, don't know how to use Hugo, okay?
So we're gonna use this container
here called hugo-builder.
And I don't know this person necessarily,
but they created this container,
hugo-builder right here, that allows
us to run Hugo inside of a container.
And we're gonna use bind mounts in
a clever way to be able to build
our project.
Okay, so here, you probably won't see
this, but apparently I have some Go
vulnerabilities I'm not gonna fix,
cuz it's not a real project.
[LAUGH] Okay, and so here's the project.
And what we're gonna do now is we're
gonna run git clone right here.
So you can go ahead and copy that.
And I'm here in my
intro-to-containers project.
If you look here,
I have all the other projects in here, and
I'm just gonna say git clone
github btholt/hugo-example.
Okay, I'm gonna go into hugo-example.
And we're gonna say docker
run --rm -it --mount.
To use our bind mounts, I'm gonna say
type=bind,source="$(pwd)" like this,
so that we can get the current
working directory.
I'm gonna say target=/src.
And then we're gonna say -p 13
13:1313 cuz that's the port that
it's gonna be listening on, -u hugo,
and then you have to put the name here.
So, jguyo, like that.
/hugo-builder.
Again, you can totally just copy
this right off of the notes as well.
And then we're gonna pin
it to a specific version,
just to make sure this keeps working,
so 0.55.
So we've done everything so far.
This is gonna drop us into the container,
and
now we can give it a command for
us to run.
So the command that I want
it to run is hugo server,
which is gonna be like
the development environment, right?
hugo server -w --bind=0.0.0.0.
So the bind part is so that it's available
externally, not just internally,
it's the container.
So now, hopefully, if we run this.
Mine's gonna say can't find this, so it's
gonna go out there and pull some of these.
It looks like it's gonna be maybe
20 megabytes worth of stuff for me.
And this already exists here.
This is probably something like Ubuntu or
Alpine that I already had on my computer,
right?
And here you go.
Now it's running, and
it's running on local host 1313.
So here is a Hugo website with some random
theme, I don't even know what theme it is.
[LAUGH] Working, right?
We got this all up and
running with a Go project with Hugo and
all that kind of stuff running,
with no knowledge of it.
Like totally black box of
how it's working internally.
And if you're a CSS developer or
designer or something like that,
you can just go in and mess with the CSS
and you don't have to really know and
understand how Hugo's
working under the hood.
You can let the other team
that handles that part of it,
just say here's the Docker file.
As long as you're in the Docker file,
everything just works, right?
So I think this is compelling for teams
and for your personal projects, right?
Like say you have some Bespoke environment
that you need to export with your project
for it to work.
You can just set all that stuff up,
and then someone can come in and
they just run the container and
everything works.
Yeah?
>> Yeah, that's literally what
we do at Frontend Masters.
This is how it works.
>> Yeah, we have Hugo and Go,
and everything is in a container.
And so you just build the container and
start working.
>> There you go, this is now officially
dubbed the Frontend Masters architecture.
[LAUGH] I think it's great.
And Hugo is a pretty
simple example of this.
I imagine most people here
could set up Hugo on their own.
I did make that project, right?
So it didn't take me that long.
But I'm sure you could
imagine some very difficult,
maybe like JVM sort of thing
that's difficult to set up.
And all of those things could be combined
into a container, or multiple containers,
and makes it very easy to share.
Do you have a question?
>> So with that approach,
if I send somebody the Docker version so
they can run locally, is this also
mitigating the need to install package?
Like when you get a pull down repo
like we just cloned this one,
usually do a Yarn or npm install.
Do we bypass that,
just deal with the container route?
>> So I'm gonna show you how to do this
with VS Code here in just a second, and
it'll take that even a step further.
In general, it's good to have
fresh dependencies, right,
because things are constantly updating.
And it's like, maybe it's like,
I don't know, let's say,
Lodash releases a version that breaks and
it's a patch version.
You wanna catch that in development,
right?
There's trade offs there that
you need to make, I guess.
So it can, right,
you can totally bake everything into it.
But what's cool about this, and
coming kinda back to your point,
if I come back in here and I look at
my Go project here, hugo-example.
So if I come here.
I think, anyway,
I can't remember how you do this.
But what's great about this is,
I'm not actually live editing, right?
Because it's using a bind mount
that's shared with my host, right?
So if I start typing things,
it's gonna be modifying the things that
are in the container as well, right?
So it can, it can mitigate that, but
you just have to make your decisions
of how you want that to work.
So actually coming back to
the point of dependencies here.
If I do an npm install on my local
computer and then I bind mount that into
Ubuntu to to be run, we still have that
issue of native dependencies, right?
So if I build Node-sass for Mac and
then I try and run it in Ubuntu,
it's not gonna work, right,
cuz it was built for Mac.
So we have this kind of issue that we have
to bind mount into the container, and
then afterwards run npm install.
Because it needs to be npm
installed within the container.
So you can burn them in,
which is what you suggested.
And you just export the container with
the dependencies already hard built in.
But that kind of sucks a little
bit because if I run npm,
it's like if I install another
dependency afterwards,
which is frequently what Node developers
are doing, we have the same problem again.
So there's a couple ways you can do it.
If you're doing it this way without Visual
Studio Code, the way that I usually do it
is I just attach to the running container,
and I run npm install for the first time.
And then after that,
it's usually okay, right?
You just kinda have to do that every
time that you restart up the container.
It's annoying, but it works.
And moving into Visual Studio Code,
which it's just smart enough to say, I'm
pretty sure you're gonna need to do an npm
install and it just does it for you, so.
But we'll get there, just a second.